okay here's the first one myth or
true carrots can help you see in the
dark
myth while carrots are full of vitamin a
which helps maintain eyesight
you won't get night vision in the 1940s
british air forces invented a new radar
and to keep it secret
they told everyone it was carrots that
helped them see at nighttime
diamonds aren't a special gemstone true
while diamonds may be a great engagement
rock they're not as rare as we've been
made to believe
advertising campaigns have made this
very common rock something extraordinary
if you want something really rare
painite gems will look beautiful
and empty your wallet at the same time
around fifty
thousand dollars a carrot
fruit loops have different flavors myth
there's no point in avoiding the color
you don't like all the colors are the
same flavor
even kellogs has stated that they all
share the same blended fruit flavor
well now i don't know what to believe
anymore
dropping a penny from the empire state
building can obliterate a person below
myth well the penny won't tickle it will
not
damage anyone on the ground simply the
penny can't build up enough speed while
it's tumbling to the ground
better to just keep the change in your
pocket
the moon has a dark side myth
now the moon isn't going to use the
force to rule
our satellite is tidally locked with the
earth meaning that we're always looking
at one side
but there's no permanent dark side
kleenex was originally designed for gas
masks
true yeah kimberly clark originally
designed a thin
cotton substitute to be used as a filter
in 1924
kleenex began selling in the us as a
cold cream and makeup remover
eventually turning into the soft tissues
we love today
chocolate is bad for you boy isn't that
a myth
while too much chocolate just like too
much of anything can indeed do some harm
a little bit can be quite good for you
not just any chocolate though
only the dark variety yum
weekend sleep ins will help you catch up
on lost sleep
that's a myth as comfy as your bed is on
a sunday morning
you just can't make up for lost sleep
irregular sleep can lower your
concentration and performance
if you're refreshed when you wake up
you've had the right amount
zombies are real true
now no human has ever turned into a
hungry zombie that were shown so much in
the movies
but they do exist in the animal kingdom
a fungus that has a really long name i
don't want to pronounce
takes over ants with its chemicals under
the control of the fungus
the ant leaves its family to find a very
specific branch or leaf
then it lets the fungus sprout out of it
and release spores back into the world
how delightful the largest living
organism
is the blue whale african elephant or
shack
myth while all of those are large the
honey fungus in the blue mountains
oregon
wins by quite a bit with the length of
3.4 miles
that's six and a half burj khalifa is
end to end and is still growing
but on the bright side it's edible
mushroom omelet anyone
turkeys can blush true just like humans
turkeys blush when excited angry or sick
the skin on their heads and necks can
turn red or
even a shade of blue the fleshy flap of
skin that hangs over their neck is
called a snood
it also turns bright red when the bird
is excited yeah maybe not at
thanksgiving though
we only have five senses myth
there's no right number some say 5 7
14 24 or even 57
our most basic senses are actually sight
hearing smell taste and touch
but also movement body position
temperature
balance and the sense of our internal
state like
feeling your heart for example close
your eyes and touch your nose
that's proprioception or body position
bats are blind myth bats eyesight is
actually better at nighttime than ours
they just can't see as well in daytime
because they only see in black and white
perhaps this myth arose from the fact
that bats use sonar to navigate with
outside
unicorns are real true
they're not horses though it's deer that
are likely the culprit
a single horn can be a genetic anomaly
found in some species
possibly leading to the unicorn legend
that formed a long time ago
honey never spoils myth
uncovered in a humid environment it will
spoil
as long as the lid stays on it and no
water is added to it
honey shouldn't go bad though having
anti-fungal and antibacterial properties
means no organisms can live in it no
matter how old your stored honey is
it's probably perfectly edible
oranges are always orange myth
sweet oranges are a hybrid of tangerines
and the pomelo
with a bright green skin to help protect
them from the sun
in warmer climates like southeast asia
oranges are still a bright green when
ripe
makes you wonder what came first the
fruit or the color
there are bugs in your strawberry
frappuccino
true but not anymore a dye made of
ground up tiny insects
called kachineo bugs is used by many
companies to make the color red
starbucks stop using bug red color in
their strawberry frappuccinos in 2015.
firefighters use wetter water
true to be more efficient at stopping
fires
firefighters recently started adding
certain chemicals to the water
the wetting agents reduce the surface
tension of the water making it easier to
spread and soak into objects
leave wasps alone and they'll leave you
alone
myth while this works for bees their
cousins the yellow jackets will disagree
known as one of the most bad tempered
wasps
they've been said to sting unprovoked
even if you just
happen to walk by their nest if you see
wasps
give them a wide berth the eiffel tower
was supposed to be torn down after 20
years
true the eiffel tower was designed to
show off france's industrial power
during the world's fair
the designers cleverly put transmitters
and antennas on top
to make the tower too useful to
eventually demolish
head lice prefer dirty hair myth
lice don't really think about hair
cleanliness they simply need human hair
to hang onto
whether it's squeaky clean or greasier
than a fryer
lice feed off of our scalps and the hair
is just a
place to hang out camels humps store
water
myth camels don't store water they store
fat in their tissues
just like me after the holidays these
reservoirs of fat allow
camels to survive for days in the desert
without stopping for food
they drink large amounts of water at a
time and store that in their bloodstream
[Music]
you need to drink eight glasses of water
a day
myth staying hydrated is critical
especially in hotter weather but we seem
to forget that
every drink is mainly water even tea and
coffee
our bodies are the best indicators for
when to drink water
feel thirsty then it's time to have a
drink
an elephant never forgets true
having the biggest brain of all land
animals
elephants should have a great memory and
they do
being able to remember their entire
territory friends
and spots to find water is crucial to
the social structure of elephants
they might even have a better memory
than you and i
now where did i leave my keys
bananas grow upside down true
bananas grow naturally towards the sun
as they're getting larger
that's why there's a curve so does that
mean we've been peeling them the wrong
way
this whole time maybe
no number before 1000 contains the
letter a
true now you can try and spell each
number out if you like
but i bet you're just going to take my
word for it
the guinness book of world records was
created to settle arguments
true the world's best tribute book was
published in 1955
after an argument about the fastest game
bird in europe the managing director of
guinness brewery realized there wasn't a
go-to book for trivial questions
so he created his own and the rest is
history
you're eating real wasabi myth
when you're sitting down for tasty sushi
that green paste
sometimes isn't wasabi it's horseradish
real wasabi is very expensive with a
milder taste to it
if it's not made in front of you it's
not going to be the real thing
so there